>> Kyle Simpson: So let's talk then
about the next abstract operation.
It's called toString.
The toString abstract operation
does what it sounds like.
It's very descriptive on the label.
It takes any value and
gives us the representation
of that value in string form.
And almost every value that you
can imagine has at least some
kind of representation in string form.
By the way in the parentheses I'm
noting the actual spec sections as they
exist currently in the version
at this moment which is ES2018.
They voted on the ES2019 spec and it'll
come out a little bit later this year.
Hopefully most of these section
numbers won't change but those are for
the ES2018 specs.
Okay so the toString opperation.
Boiling down a bunch of details let me
just show you some examples of things and
what they end up producing
as a string representation.
And for the most part these
are exactly what you'd expect.
If you had a null value and
you ended up doing that toString
abstract operation in some way,
you'd get quote null.
Same thing with undefined, true false,
floating point numbers, even the zero.
Things get a little strange when we look
at the negative zero, remember that.
We already saw that it lies, the toString
operation for negative zero lies and
produces a quote, zero.
So that's one of the corner cases and
we'll talk more about
corner cases in a bit.
All right so if we call toString on
an object remember it's going to invoke
the toPrimitive with the string hint.
So what's that going to give us?
Remember that's gonna end up
calling toString first and
if it's present and
then it's going to use valueOf.
That's the order that it does.
So what's that gonna look like
on some particular object?
Well, if it's an array, for example,
arrays have a default toString,
which serializes
the representation of the array.
It's a bit of a strange serialization,
in my opinion,
because they're leaving off the brackets.
So if you serialized a empty array,
you get an empty string.
I think that was a really dumb decision.
I don't know why they
left off the brackets.
Because it turns out, there's a bunch of
things that can serialize to strings.
So how am I supposed to know
whether it was an empty array?
But nevertheless, this is how it works.
The built-in toString on arrays
leaves off the brackets.
If we have an array with
some contents in it,
it'll show those contents unless
they're null and undefined.
And this is even weirder,
the toString definition for this.
I actually was just reading the spec the
other day and I was like why on earth they
do this, nulls and undefines, when they
show up in arrays just get left out.
I mean they're there presently.
You can see there's a comma there.
They're there presently
in terms of position, but
they're not represented as nulls and
undefines the way null and
undefine when toStrings do.
In my opinion, a bizarre inconsistency.
Essentially, array to stringification is
like maybe you could use it in the dev
console but I would never use something
like this in my program because all these
weird corner cases of its behavior.
>> Kyle Simpson: What about on objects?
I'm sure you've all seen the bracket
object object thing which is like,
what on earth is that?
The default toString on
the object of prototype is to
do that whole bracket thing.
And this, let me just rant for just
a micro moment here, why on earth did they
leave off the square brackets for arrays
and put the square brackets on objects?
Somebody explain that to me,
what on earth.
Bonkers.
Okay but back to reality for a moment.
It does the square brackets,
it does a lower case object and
then it puts in this thing
which is called the string tag.
And it turns out you can actually
override the string tag for
any of your own custom
objects using an ES6 symbol.
You can, it's called toString tag and
you can change it.
So you could change it from saying
Object there in that string to saying
my favorite number, or
whatever you want it to say.
That's a meta programming thing but
it is possible to do.
So that Object there is the default
string tag for all default objects.
And then the toString method
takes that string tag and
wraps this other junk around it.
If you over ride the toString method,
you can completely control
what you want the stringtification
of your object to look like.
In this case, I'm making it turn,
return just a string X.
I have used this by the way,
I have defined a toString method,
but I've defined it as a getter so
that it can be dynamically
returned in the string tag.
I've defined this in such a way so
that, on an object,
and I don't do this all the time.
But if I'm trying to understand
what's in the context of an object,
object Object is not helpful to me.
But you can override it, and
tell it to JSON-stringify the object and
print those results,
and that is much nicer.
So you can override a toString,
or the string tag,
to help you in the dev console.
But again, this is not the sort of
metaprogramming I would typically do
much in my programs.